# Programming Technology Research

## Self Enrollment Settings

### Custom Welcome Message

Welcome to the Programming Technologies course! We are excited to have you as part of our membership. After enrolling, you must select a laboratory group.

### WIKAMP enrolment invitation

I would like to invite students of the **Programming Technology** course to self-enrollment on the WIKAMP platform. The key to enrolling is `PT`. Details to find the course is below.

- Mariusz Postół Ph.D. Eng. <mariusz.postol@p.lodz.pl>
- Category: III year
- [Programming Technology](https://ife.edu.p.lodz.pl/course/view.php?id=224)

## Course Summary - consider to reuse

1. This part of the gathered examples provides ready-to-use code snippets helpful for rendering the graphical data, querying the structural data, and serialization to employ streaming data, that is manage of the external data.
1. Providing a long-term horizon is extremely difficult for such a dynamically developing field. Here, the experience of the author comes to the rescue, who has been employing similar solutions for years using constantly changing programming tools.

## Task 1

### UMLDiagram

### CheckList

- Title:  Task 1 Check list
- Copy the content of the file to a new GitHub issue to get a list of tasks prefixed by checkboxes you can use to control the scope and progress of your work.

## GitHub README.md template file

Your repository must have the `README.md` file prepared according to this template. Place the README.md file in the main directory of the repository. A GUID is required for identification. This GUID can be generated using `VS \ Tools \ Create GUID`. Don't use example GUIDs embedded in the template.

### Reservation module

- \<data\> Lab \04 Reservation

Please book a time-slot for #4 laboratory using this module to check the progress of your work and compatibility of design environments. In the comment field, please enter the URL of your GitHub repository, which will be used to carry out the tasks included in the course program. In the same field, you should also put the GUIDs previously placed in the README.md file of the repository. The GUID can be generated using `VS \ Tools \ Create GUID`.
